# hackforthepeople

## Inspiration 
Since we are current students at Tufts University, we were all too familiar with the struggle of having online classes. It was diffcult to have motivation and maintain a strong sense of communication with our professors. We began to think how this could effect younger students and their parents, especially those that come from diverse (both racially and socioeconomically). As you can imagine, for families that may not have enough resources, parents may face numerous obstacles whe trying to work with their children on staying focused on school, when they are at home. It can also be difficult for parents to know everything that is happening both within the school and their children's respective classes; this communication is further complicated due to language barries that may also arise between parents and teachers. Therefore, we decided to create a user friendly tool to help both teachers, students, and parents. 

## What it does 
HubSchool is a resource we created where teachers, students, or parents can create an account that will help them stay in the loop of all the various school activities. You can imagine it as "Facebook" but for only schools/school purposes. On the Student end, they can create an account and add in all of their different "pages." These pages can be a specifc class or club or event; they can search these up by adding a new page to their dashboard and searching for the respective field. Parents can also do something similar; they can add their children's courses to their dashboard where the teacher can post parent-specifc information. This can range from anything such as helpful tools/course materials, or general updates about their class/the child's performance. For teachers, they can similarily create an account and add/create pages for their needs. Here, they can post helpful information or resources for their students or the students' parents. 

## How we built it 
To create this resource, we mainly utilized our html/css/javascript knowledge to develop an interactive webpage for our users. We also utilized AirTable to act as our database where we can store important information. This is mainly used for our demo purposes but as you can imagine, it can be easily transferable to another data base with continued work. 

## Challenges we run into 
Some of the main challenges we ran into was making our webpage responsive so that our users can utilize it on their phones. All three of us have a solid understanding of html/css/javascript but when we began to add in our various features we realized how diffult responsiveness can be. However, through much persistence we were able to overcome this hurtle. Another struggle was utilizing a database that was easy enough to implement for a temporary demo version, but still could be private enough that we could keep our user's information secure. After finding Airtable and creating functions to make API calls, we were able to figure out together how to intertwine Airtable within our webpage. We also struggled a bit with time management since all three of us communicated virtually and were not in person to work together. We were able to schedule various blocks of time where we would work really hard for a few hours, and then do whatever we had to do in our respective homes. 

## Accomplishments we're proud of 
We were super proud of how many features we were able to add in a short amount of time. Some of these features include the "sign up page" and the "add a page." We were thrilled to have airtable successfully connect to both of these aspects because it allowed us to save the user's information and open up their accounts with their specifc information. It hepled us get a better idea of how this could be implemented as a more thorough and real resource in the future. 

## What we learned 
We learned a lot more about flexbox and improved our html/css/javascript abilities. 

## What's next 
The next steps for this project would be to implement a more secure database and restructure some of the UI aspects to make it flow more naturally. We would also like to implement more features such as creating different forms/modals for the teachers so that they could add more pages for their class or clubs. Another aspect we could potentially see us move forward with is creating a mobile app for HubSchool so that our users can easily view any information with regards to HubSchool. 
